.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 2/1/06               \" DATE 
.Dt dsymutil 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm dsymutil
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\".Nm Other_name_for_same_program(),
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd manipulate archived DWARF debug symbol files.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl -arch=ARCH        \" [--arch=PATH] 
.Op Fl -out=path         \" [--out=path] 
.Ar exe_path             \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
links the DWARF debug information found in the object files for an executable 
.Ar exe_path
by using debug symbols information contained in its symbol table.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl -arch=ARCH
Link DWARF debug information only for specified CPU architecture types. 
Architectures may be specified by name or by number. 
When using this option, an error will be returned if any architectures 
can not be properly linked. 
This option can be specified multiple times, once for each desired architecture. 
All cpu architectures will be linked by default and any architectures
that can't be properly linked will not cause 
.Nm
to return an error as long as at least one architecture was able to link 
successfully.
.Pp
.It Fl h, -help
Display the help documentation for this command.
.It Fl f, -flat
Produce a flat dSYM file. A '.dwarf' extension will be appended to the
executable name unless the output file is specified using the -o option.
.It Fl o\ path, -out=path       \"--out=path
Specifies an alternate path to place the .dSYM bundle. The default dSYM
bundle path is created by appending '.dSYM' to the executable name. 
.Pp
.It Fl -oso-prepend-path=path       \"--oso-prepend-path=path
Specifies a path to prepend to all debug symbol object file paths. 
.Pp
.It Fl s, -symtab
Dumps the symbol table found in executable or object file(s) and exits.
.Pp
.It Fl t\ n, -threads=n
Specifies the maximum number (n) of simultaneous threads to use when linking
multiple architectures.
.Pp
.It Fl v, -version
Display the current version and build date of the
.Nm
binary.
.Pp
.It Fl -verbose
Display verbose information when linking.
.Pp
.It Fl u, -update
Update an existing dSYM file to contain the latest accelerator tables and
other DWARF optimizations. This option will currently add the new .apple_names
and .apple_types hashed accelerator tables.
.Pp
.It Fl -minimize
When used when creating a dSYM file, this option will suppress the emission of
the .debug_inlines, .debug_pubnames, and .debug_pubtypes sections since dsymutil
currently has better equivalents: .apple_names and .apple_types.
When used in conjunction with --update option, this option will cause redundant
accelerator tables to be removed. 
.Pp
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.\".Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.\".Bl -tag -width "/Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name" -compact
.\".It Pa /usr/share/file_name
.\"FILE_1 description
.\".It Pa /Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name
.\"FILE_2 description
.\".El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr dwarfdump 1 
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner 
