.TH "d0" 8 "2013" "drag0n command line interface"
.SH NAME
.B d0 
- drag0n Installer command line interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B d0 
<action> <type> [args...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B d0 
utillity is a wrapper script to access the PHP-API of the drag0n Installer. It supports the same parameters as the HTTP-API (d0://<action>/<args>).

.SH ACTIONS

.SS install
Install a package. Possible potions are:

.IP id
A package ID.
.br
I.e.: d0 install id com.yiiframework.yii1 com.sourceforge.someProject ...

.IP url
A vaild URL which results into a vaild 
.B d0p
archive.
.br
I.e.: d0 install url http://drag0ninstaller.tk/pkgs/d0.api.php.drag0nInstaller_1.0.d0p

.IP file
A vaild d0p file.
.br
I.e.: d0 install file /User/Ingwie/Work/d0.php.api.APTFile.d0p

.IP list
A file, containing a list of packages in the format 
.I (url|id|file)
::
.I (http(s)://...|id|/Users/Ingwie/...)
.br
An example file could look like this:
.br
.I url::http://drag0ninstaller.tk/pkgs/d0.gui.d0p
.br
.I id::com.jquery.jquery110
.br
.I file::/Users/Ingwie/Work/d0.api.php.APTFile_1.0b.d0p
.br
.p
I.e.: d0 install list /Users/Ingwie/Work/drag0n.lst
.br
.B OR
.br
I.e.: d0 install list $(curl http://drag0ninstaller.tk/beta/joinBeta.lst)

.SS uninstall
For this, the above options are applied - just that the packages will be
.B UNINSTALLED
\.

.SS update
This updates eighter the programm itself, or the packages.
.IP self
Updates drag0n Installer itself.
.IP pkg
Updates all packages. If you supply a list of 
.B package ID's
we'll only update these.

.SS search
Search all repositories for a package. Possible types are:
.IP str
A string with which the database should be searched
.IP id
Search the database by the package ID.

.SS resource
Manage the resources associated to drag0n. Possible options are:
.IP add
Add a resource
.br
I.e.: d0 resource add http://example.com/d0
.br
You can optimally specify the resource's metafile. If you did, call the script this way:
.br
d0 resource add --metafile http://example.com/d0/meta.d0i
.IP add-name
Add a resource from the list of trusted resources
.br
I.e.: d0 resource add-name ExampleDomain
.IP list
List all available resources. This is important for the next type.
.br
.b FOR DEVS:
This returns the list of domains in a similar format to
.B d0 install list
.br
An example would be:
.br
1::http://drag0ninstaller.tk/::drag0n Installer default resource (DIDR)
.br
2::http://example.com/d0::Example Resource
.IP remove
This removes a resource by it's 
.I assigned number 
- use the above before to find out about your resource.

.SH GLOBAL PARAMETERS
.SS --verbose
Supply this, and you'll see more output.
.SS --encode=[json|serialize]
The outputted data will be echo'd as the specified type. Only usable for developers.

.SH SEE ALSO
drag0n.app/Contents/Application/
.SH AUTHOR
Ingwie Phoenix (ingwie2000@googlemail.com)